---
title: how to *actually* study
date: 2025-08-01 19:50:00 +0300
categories: [diary]
tags: [studying, habits, learning]
---

I've survived my first year of engineering school and I'd think that's a big deal. I don't want to jinx it or anything, but I really have no idea what the next couple of years bring. Whatever, it's always nice to look on the positive side.

First year was okay. The stuff we did in class wasn't difficult although I think I'm part of that tiny percentage who believes so. I was already familiar with a lot of it, as I had covered the same material in high school. Just like with any college class, getting a quality professor is like winning the lottery you get lucky with someone who enjoys teaching, or you get someone less than adequate. But really, all that doesn't matter so much because you *will* need to self-study regardless.

Engineering isn’t easy. There's no sugarcoating it. You’ll need to pour in an ungodly amount of time and effort not just to pass, but to truly understand the material.

Your objective shouldn’t be to *just* pass it should be to *understand*. Read that again.

You have to be highly conscious of your time. Let me present you with the **3x Rule**, that is, for every credit hour of a course, you should be prepared to spend **three times** as many hours per week in class and studying. Therefore, a 3 credit course is 9 hours of overall weekly work.

Of course, the 3x Rule applies only if the material you are studying is actually good. I did not rely on the slides that lecturers provided as they were incomplete and don't explain the concepts properly. I used them only for instant revision. Rather, I used to study the reference books listed in the subject descriptors. Those books may be dense with content, but they fill the gaps and offer you a solid foundation.

Of course, this only works if you have a good and solid study habit. Reading and memorizing is not going to cut it. You can possibly vomit a thing or two on the exam paper, but that's nothing short of pattern recognition at best. You need to be able to comprehend the material well enough that you can teach it to others. That is how you know you've truly learned.

No study schedule of voodoo I pay attention to, no insane spaced repetition rituals in which I associate random objects in the house with formulas. Read the material with the intention of learning something, you wanna get out of this study session with the aim of grasping the theory behind the topic you are actively learning and try applying it somewhere outside of the use you are comfortable with. I used the laplace transform in circuit analysis to solve circuit problems. I took something that I learned from math and applied it to another subject.

It is also useful to quiz yourself occasionally. Something that was super useful to me was having Gemini or ChatGPT generate multiple choice questions on whatever topic I was studying. I did it a lot when I was learning about programming concepts.
