---
title: a much needed change
date: 2025-08-01 15:30:00 +0300
categories: [diary]
tags: [reflection]
---

Apologizing after a long time can be really difficult. For example, I sometimes struggle with this 
I know I’ve hurt people or been an ass, but I either didn’t apologize at the right time, or when I did, it didn’t come across as sincere.

On one hand, I want to apologize. On the other hand, I hesitate because it’s been a while, and maybe the person has already forgotten about it.
Would apologizing now seem insincere, or could it even cause more issues?

I have hurt many people, including some of those closest to me. Whether I meant to or not, it doesn't justify it.
I haven't made many positive impressions yet in my first year of university, meeting new people and speaking to them.
This really gets to me and keeps me up at night sometimes. But at some point, I have to snap out of it being obsessed with the past
won't allow me to move forward. I need to learn to forgive myself and not be too hard on myself.

You encounter hundreds, maybe thousands, of new people every day. So what if you made a bad impression on a dozen or so? You can either obsess
over it and jeopardize your mental health, or you can opt to move on and do your best at the social game.

It's about learning how to become a better person, and I hate to admit this, but I came to accept it. I'm really an asshole, and this is evident
in my delivery and my tone when talking to people. I lack kindness, sympathy, and empathy those are the very things that make you human.
I easily get annoyed, and my reactions do not make any positive impressions, and individuals tend to despise communicating with me due to this. To begin with,
I have to do something about this. I cannot just disregard this anymore this is beginning to get to me. Younger me would just brush this off and just
continue living life, not entirely understanding the implications this will bring. Everything begins at home. If I am going to alter the way I speak to others, I need to begin with those that are closest to me.

I only wish that people won't remember me for my old self, but the new me who is attempting to change.
It's hard enough to endure change and have people still perceive you in an old way, but I and neither should you give it any
care in the world, as you are undertaking this for your own sake, not theirs. Actions speak louder than your keyboard.

*“I am not what happened to me, I am what I choose to become.” - Carl Jung*
